docs/words.md, before:

# Word Index

## Toplevel (compile-time)

A number of common Forth words are available from the _toplevel_ context at
compile-time. Generally speaking you should be able to use all stack
(`dup`, `swap`, ...) and arithmetic/logic (`+`, `<>`, ...) operators as you
would expect them; they are simply exposed from the _HOST_ vocabulary. If you
think a word is missing, consider
[opening an issue](https://github.com/ams-hackers/gbforth/issues/new) or submit
a PR to add it.

Words that operate on the memory are implemented in a way that they reference
the target RAM/ROM instead of your host memory. Other than that they should
behave similar to the
[ANS Forth specification](https://www.taygeta.com/forth/dpansf.html).

Additionally, the are a few gbforth specific words available to you at
compile-time:

##### `:` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and starts compiling a new _target definition_. Words
defined with `:` can not be executed at compile-time and are only available
from within other target definitions.

##### `:m` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and starts compiling a new _meta definition_. Words
defined with `:m` can not be executed at run-time and serve only as an
abstraction level for simplifying your toplevel code.

##### `;` _( -- )_

Ends the target or meta definition and switches back to interpreter mode.

##### `==>` _( n -- )_

Sets the ROM offset to a new position. Usually only needed when writing ASM.

##### `[asm]` _( -- )_

Adds the _ASSEMBLER_ vocabulary to the context, allowing you to write ASM
instructions.

##### `[endasm]` _( -- )_

Removes the _ASSEMBLER_ vocabulary from the context.

##### `[host]` _( -- )_

Switches to the _HOST_ vocabulary, allowing you to use Forth words that operate
on your host machine and memory.

##### `[target]` _( -- )_

Switches to the _TARGET_ vocabulary (this list). This is the default context.

##### `code` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and creates a new ASM primitive. The ASSEMBLER vocabulary
is made available automatically.

##### `endcode` _( -- )_

Ends the ASM primitive definition.

##### `-endcode` _( -- )_

Ends the ASM primitive definition without compiling a RETURN at the end. This
assumes that you handle exiting the definition in ASM yourself.

##### `gamecode:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Game Code. Maximum 4
characters (overwrites the last characters from the title if this exceeds 11
characters).

##### `main:` _( -- )_

Patches the entry point vector (in the header of the cartridge) with a jump to
the current ROM offset. Usually only needed when writing an ASM-only game, as
the kernel overwrites this to point to the gbforth prelude by default.

##### `makercode:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Maker Code. Maximum 4
characters (overwrites the last characters from the title).

##### `mem,` _( c-addr u -- )_

Compiles the _host_ memory starting at `c-addr` with length `u` to the target ROM.

##### `parse` _( c -- c-addr u )_

Parses a string delimited by character `c`, stores it in the ROM, and pushes the
address and length of the compiled string to the stack.

##### `ram` _( -- )_

Switch to the RAM memory space (affects the words `here`, `unused`, `allocate`).
In this mode you are unable to access the memory (e.g. words like `@` and `!`
are unavailable), you can only allocate space (e.g. using `variable`).

##### `rom` _( -- )_

Switch to the ROM memory space (affects the words `here`, `unused`, `allocate`).
In this mode you are able use words like `!` and `c,`, but allocated space can
not be written to at run-time.

##### `title:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Title. Maximum 15 characters
(or 11 if you want to specify a Game Code as well).

> Todo:
>
> Words defined in standard but with slightly different behaviour?
>
> here / unused / allot / create /
> fill / erase / @ / ! /
> ' ( tick ) /
> 'body ( tick >body) /

## Target definitions (run-time)

For target definitions (defined with `:`) there is a large number of common
Forth words available from the core library (automatically included). These
words behave (as close as possible) according to the
[ANS Forth standard](https://www.taygeta.com/forth/dpansf.html). A few
differences exists that are related to [run-time limitations](./limitations.md)
or the [memory model](./memory.md) for the Game Boy.

Apart from the core words, a lot of additional useful words are available from
[libraries](./libs.md) that you can include in your project.

Commit message:

Add words mem> and >mem
This allows for restoring the currently selected memory space when a lib needs to temporararily switch to ROM or RAM

docs/words.md, after:

# Word Index

## Toplevel (compile-time)

A number of common Forth words are available from the _toplevel_ context at
compile-time. Generally speaking you should be able to use all stack
(`dup`, `swap`, ...) and arithmetic/logic (`+`, `<>`, ...) operators as you
would expect them; they are simply exposed from the _HOST_ vocabulary. If you
think a word is missing, consider
[opening an issue](https://github.com/ams-hackers/gbforth/issues/new) or submit
a PR to add it.

Words that operate on the memory are implemented in a way that they reference
the target RAM/ROM instead of your host memory. Other than that they should
behave similar to the
[ANS Forth specification](https://www.taygeta.com/forth/dpansf.html).

Additionally, the are a few gbforth specific words available to you at
compile-time:

##### `:` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and starts compiling a new _target definition_. Words
defined with `:` can not be executed at compile-time and are only available
from within other target definitions.

##### `:m` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and starts compiling a new _meta definition_. Words
defined with `:m` can not be executed at run-time and serve only as an
abstraction level for simplifying your toplevel code.

##### `;` _( -- )_

Ends the target or meta definition and switches back to interpreter mode.

##### `==>` _( n -- )_

Sets the ROM offset to a new position. Usually only needed when writing ASM.

##### `[asm]` _( -- )_

Adds the _ASSEMBLER_ vocabulary to the context, allowing you to write ASM
instructions.

##### `[endasm]` _( -- )_

Removes the _ASSEMBLER_ vocabulary from the context.

##### `[host]` _( -- )_

Switches to the _HOST_ vocabulary, allowing you to use Forth words that operate
on your host machine and memory.

##### `[target]` _( -- )_

Switches to the _TARGET_ vocabulary (this list). This is the default context.

##### `code` _( -- )_

Parses the next word and creates a new ASM primitive. The ASSEMBLER vocabulary
is made available automatically.

##### `endcode` _( -- )_

Ends the ASM primitive definition.

##### `-endcode` _( -- )_

Ends the ASM primitive definition without compiling a RETURN at the end. This
assumes that you handle exiting the definition in ASM yourself.

##### `gamecode:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Game Code. Maximum 4
characters (overwrites the last characters from the title if this exceeds 11
characters).

##### `main:` _( -- )_

Patches the entry point vector (in the header of the cartridge) with a jump to
the current ROM offset. Usually only needed when writing an ASM-only game, as
the kernel overwrites this to point to the gbforth prelude by default.

##### `makercode:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Maker Code. Maximum 4
characters (overwrites the last characters from the title).

##### `mem,` _( c-addr u -- )_

Compiles the _host_ memory starting at `c-addr` with length `u` to the target ROM.

##### `mem>` _( -- x )_

Fetches the currently selected memory space to restore it later. Use in combination with `>mem`.

##### `>mem` _( x -- )_

Restores the selected memory space that you retrieved earlier. Use in combination with `mem>`.

##### `parse` _( c -- c-addr u )_

Parses a string delimited by character `c`, stores it in the ROM, and pushes the
address and length of the compiled string to the stack.

##### `ram` _( -- )_

Switch to the RAM memory space (affects the words `here`, `unused`, `allocate`).
In this mode you are unable to access the memory (e.g. words like `@` and `!`
are unavailable), you can only allocate space (e.g. using `variable`).

##### `rom` _( -- )_

Switch to the ROM memory space (affects the words `here`, `unused`, `allocate`).
In this mode you are able use words like `!` and `c,`, but allocated space can
not be written to at run-time.

##### `title:` _( -- )_

Parses the rest of the line and sets the cartridge Title. Maximum 15 characters
(or 11 if you want to specify a Game Code as well).

> Todo:
>
> Words defined in standard but with slightly different behaviour?
>
> here / unused / allot / create /
> fill / erase / @ / ! /
> ' ( tick ) /
> 'body ( tick >body) /

## Target definitions (run-time)

For target definitions (defined with `:`) there is a large number of common
Forth words available from the core library (automatically included). These
words behave (as close as possible) according to the
[ANS Forth standard](https://www.taygeta.com/forth/dpansf.html). A few
differences exists that are related to [run-time limitations](./limitations.md)
or the [memory model](./memory.md) for the Game Boy.

Apart from the core words, a lot of additional useful words are available from
[libraries](./libs.md) that you can include in your project.
